docs/design-docs/tags.dd.adoc, before:


----
pats_t
  -- defautl: Admins only. Later, migrate this to tagtype_perms_t:
  may_edit_post_tags_c  may_d
  may_edit_pat_tags_c  may_d  -- pat tags more sensitive? are personal
  may_create_tagtypes_c  may_d
  may_edit_tagtypes_tr_lv  may_d




-- wait:
needed_d?
  0 = optional (not neeed)
  1? -1? = cannot add more (disallowed),
  2 = required at creation
  3 = required,

No. Instead, a member who wants a new tag type, craets it henself — a personal, public tag.
Starts using it a bit, and then messages the mods and says "Can we add this tag? ... ".
Skip: suggestion_status_d
     null/0 = nothing suggested,
     1 = new suggestion, 2 = under review, 3 = accepted, pending creation,  4 = accepted, created,  -1 = rejected?



create table types_t (    -- currently named  tagtypes_t
  -- Later, these as well?:

  owned_by_id_c int,    -- by default visible only to that user/group, null = global, everyone can see
                        -- to make visible for others, use  tagtype_perms_t
  deleted_by_id_c int,
  merged_into_tagtype_id_c int,
  merged_by_id_c int,

  ---- WAIT with this: ------------------------------
  icon_nr_c,              -- to use any Ty built-in icon?
  image_upl_path_c,


  ---- WAIT with this: ------------------------------
  -- if non-staff wants to create tags, which staff can later one-click approve, not having to do the work themselves:
  -- No, skip.
  suggestion_status_c    suggestion_status_d,
  suggested_by_id_c,

  enabled_c,

  -- No, skip. Better use an Idea topic instead?
  deleted_status_c,       -- 1 = deletion suggested, 2 = pending deletion?, 3 = deleted?, 4 = purged?   -1 = deletion suggestion rejected

  use_in_whole_site_c,   -- if not, use-were defined in: types_use_where_t

  can_be_seen_by_min_trust_level_c,   -- null —> none
  can_be_seen_by_group_id_c,          -- or  a tagtype_perms_t ?
  can_use_self_c,                     -- publ/priv bookmark

  -- post tagged
  show_in_page_list_if_on_reply_c   show_tag_how_d,
  show_in_page_list_if_on_op_c      show_tag_how_d,  >= show_in_page_list_if_on_reply_c
  show_on_reply_post_c              show_tag_how_d,  >= show_in_page_list_if_on_reply_c
  show_on_orig_post_c               show_tag_how_d,  >= show_in_page_list_if_on_op_c

  -- pat tagged
  show_in_pat_list_c      show_tag_how_d,
  show_on_post_author_c   show_tag_how_d,
  show_on_pat_card_c      show_tag_how_d,  >= show_on_post_author_c & show_in_pat_list_c
  show_on_profile_page_c  show_tag_how_d,  >= show_on_post_author_c & show_in_pat_list_c & show_on_pat_card_c
  needed_on_pats_c        needed_d,       -- and/or-insetad: types_use_where_t.needed_c
  ?? child_tag_needed
  ?? default_child_tag
  -----------------------------------------
);


create table tag_synonyms_t (
  site_id_c int,
  lang_code_c text_oneline_30_d default '',  ?
  synonym_c text_oneline_60_d,
  tagtype_id_c int,
  pk:  site_id_c, lang_code_c, synonym_c  ?
);




-- This'd be in  pat_rels_t instead? E.g.  Sarah —> PatRelType.SuggestDelete —> a-tag
--
create table tag_actions_t (  -- maybe never
  site_id_c
  tag_id_c
  action_type_c
     e.g.:  SuggestDeleteTag, SuggestEditValue, Do-It Vote -N/+N (like in Gerrit), DiscussTag
  action_value_int_c
  discussion_page_id_c
);




create table perms_on_types_t(    -- much later.
           -- Also see: appsv/rdb/src/main/resources/db/migration/db-wip.sql  [perms_thoughts]
  site_id_c,
  for_pat_id_c,
  on_global_tags_c bool,
  on_global_and_priv_tags_c bool,
  on_thing_type_c type_d,
  on_sub_type_c   type_d,  -- ?
  may_edit_type_name_slug_descr_looks_c,   ??
  may_edit_type_name_descr_c,              ??
  may_edit_type_other_c,
  may_edit_type_use_where_c,
  may_see_others_c,      -- false —> becomes personal bookmark / star?
  may_add_c,
  may_edit_others_c,
  may_add_own_inst_c,
  may_edit_own_inst_c,
  may_merge_c,
);


create table types_use_where_t(    -- much later
  site_id_c int,
  type_id_c int,
  -- Is this for content tags, or does say  use_in_cat_id_c  make sense
  -- also for VotedOn.* types or e.g. an AssignedTo.AnswerQuestion type?
  use_in_cat_id_c,
  use_in_group_id_c,
  use_on_oneself_c,
  child_of_type_id_c,
  allowed_w_o_parent_c,  -- if is child, then, may be added if parent tag hasn't been added?
  needed_c  needed_d,
  auto_create_c,
  auto_create_child_c,   -- then, auto created with def value (if any), if creating parent tag
);



create table tags_t(

  -- mayeb add later: ------------
  on_cat_id_c,
  on_tag_id_c,       -- tag a tag? Maybe later
  on_type_id_c,      -- e.g. tag a type with a "Merge this type with: (other type)"?

  cust_i32_c   i32_d,
  cust_json_c  jsonb_ste100_000_d,  -- simpler than  tag_vals_t?

  -- So anyone can suggest tags, but, say, a trusted member needs to review and
  -- approve — so tags end up getting wisely used: (tags are often a mess, in other
  -- software systems)
  suggestion_status_c suggestion_d,

  deleted_by_id_c, -- maybe only the deleter and those-with-the-required-permission can undelete?
  hidden_by_id_c,  -- e.g. if staff added tag, but pat hides it, doesn't like it, then hidden_by_id_c = pat's id
  ----------------------------
);
----


== Can tag what?

Later: Will change  tag_types_t  to just  types_t,  [custom_types]
so can be used as  link types too,  e.g.  custom vote types (aka "reactions").


Each tag type, what things can one tag with it?
There're pages, votes, flags, cats, tags, pats, plugins, nothing (plugin key-value store).
Use a bitfield?

No --------------------
Guests, (built-in users), users, bot users, groups,  = 2^5 - 1 = 31.
  — what about accounts controlled by both a bot and a human? Or if unknown.
Pages (orig posts), replies, meta posts, = 2^5 + 2^6 + 2^7 - 1 = 32+64+128 = 224
Think about later: categories, tags, votes, flags, edit suggestions, plugins, ... .
------ Intstead?: -----
  Guests = 2^0 + Users = 2^1 + Groups = 2^2       =  7  (instead of 31)
     but what about anons, pseudonyms and circles?
  Pages  = 2^3 + Replies = 2^4 + Meta posts = 2^5 = 56  (instead of 224)

What?:
  No:
      Links from pats  to: cats, tags, pages, comments, meta comments,
                          guests, anons, users, groups, circles
      Links from posts to: cats, tags, pages, comments, meta comments,
                          guests, anons, users, groups, circles
  Instead;
      post links of  link_type_d in ...
      post links of  link_sub_type_d in ....

      pat  links of  link_type_d in ...
      pat  links of  link_sub_type_d in ....

Therefore: domain thing_types_d, can be only 7 or 56, for now.


== Tag values

Maybe:  If a tag needs many values, let a single tag in  tags_t  consist of many rows,
each row with one value?  — Instead of a new table tag_vals_t?
NO, so complicated! Just add a  cust_jsonb_c  column and that's it — if a plugin
    needs to store an array of values, then, it can do so in that jsonb thing.

either:  (but too complicated!?)
    tags_t: remove pk
    tags_t +=
      has_extra_vals          bool
      extra_val_for_tag_id_c  tag_id_d,

or:      (but too complicated!?)
    tags_t: add val_nr: 0,1,2,... , 0 could be the main
    tags_t +=
      has_extra_vals          bool
      extra_val_for_tag_id_c  tag_id_d,
      val_type_c     val_type_d,   -- e.g. date —> val_i64_c = unix time millis?
                                    -- date_range —> val_i64_end_c  = end date range?
                                    -- CVE score: (0, 10]
                                    -- SemVer2 —> regex check?
                                    -- etc etc

and/or just inline all values, maybe:
(Foreign keys won't work, but the simplicity and the higher performance and the
lower bug risk (than if joining with a tag values table) is worth it I think!
See: http://www.databasesoup.com/2015/01/tag-all-things.html & part 2 & 3.
BUT there can be a  tag_rels_t  with links from tags to posts or pats, if that
   ever makes sense. With foreign keys.  Just like there's  post_rels_t and pat_rels_t.)

    val_i64_c      i64_d,    -- name it  cust_i64_c ?
    -- Mabye skip all this (just an i64 and a jsonb can be enough?!) -----
    val_i64_end_c  i64_d,
    val_f64_c      f64_d,
    val_f64_end_c  f64_d,

    val_title_c    text w max len,
    val_http_url_c http_url_d,

    val_i32_arr_c   i32[],
    val_i64_arr_c   i64[],
    val_f64_arr_c   f64[],
    val_text_arr_c  text[],
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    val_jsonb_c    jsonb_ste100_000_d,   -- name it  cust_jsonb_c
   

And tag_types_t:
  allowed_val_types_c  User   for example    — maybe a bitfield?
  max_num_vals_c      5   (0..=100 for example)   — e.g. assign sth to 5 ppl?


Mat views are reealy slow, often out of sync:
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29437650/how-can-i-ensure-that-a-materialized-view-is-always-up-to-date

Later:

In Talkyard, tags will be able to have values. E.g. an Assigned-To page tag,
with its value being the person (or people, or group) responsible for gettin it done.
*NO*, instead, the links tables, just 1 row:
        pat_rels_t:
            from_pat_id_c = ...
            to_post_id_c = ...
            rel_type_c = PatLinkType.AssignedTo
    That's simpler. But with tags, would need 2 rows (or 3 if counting the types_t row)
    that's pointless indirection (linking a post and a person via a tag, not directly),
    more complicated:
        types_t:  Assigned-To tag type,
        tags_t:   a tag of type Assigned-To, tagging the post
        tag_rels_t:
            from_tag_id_c =  the tag just above (in tags_t)
            to_pat_id_c =    the person assigned

And also, this makes it harder to write queries for looking up who's assigned to what
— need to join all of:  posts_t, tags_t, types_t, tag_rels_t, pats_t

                          ,——> types_t: AssignedTo
                         /
            [post] <—— tag ——————> [person]
                          `~—————> [person-2]  (2 ppl assigned)

     instead of just:   posts_t, pat_rels_t, pats_t

            [post] <——— AssignedTo ——— [person]
                 ^————— AssignedTo ——— [person-2]

So don't use tags for AssignedTo etc.  Instead, pat_rels_t and the AssignedTo type.


Or a Do-After tag, saying that something should/needs-to wait until
after another feature/problem has been done/fixed.

--- NO, this'll probably be a post of type sth like AboutNotes, and a post_rels_t entry
      linking the post to the person?  No need to bring tags into this. Links are simpler,
      more direct.
Or a "Staff Notes" tag (user badge) on a person, visible only to staff,
which links to a staff-only page with notes and comments about that person.
-------


--- NO, this will be links instead, e.g. PatLinkType.AssignedTo:
Probably there'd be some default tag types, in the same way as there are
default categories (ideas, questions etc).
They could be: Assigned-To and Staff-Notes?
-------

There could be numeric or text values, e.g. `version: `1.23.01-beta-1`,
or `price: 234` (but what currency?).  Or `location-lat: 123` `..-long: 456`?
Or `Happens-In-City: (some city)`, or `Happens-At: (date-time)`

This could also be achieved via a consistent tag naming scheme,
like people do in GitHub, e.g.: `version-1.23.01-beta-1`
or `happens-in-London` and `happens-in-Barcelona`,
but then it's cumbersome or even infeasible to change `happens-in-` to, say,
`Happens in: ` or `Where: ` or `location-`
— instead of just renaming one tag (the "Happens in city" tag),
you'd have to rename _all_ tags with that prefix.

What values would be nice to support?

CVE numbers: float (0.0, 10.0].
Software versions: string?
Pat list.
Page list.
Date-time.
Date-time range.
Many date-time ranges? (a many evenings / days event)
Cat list?
Tag list? Hmm

----
create table tag_vals_t(
  site_id_c int,
  tag_id_c int,

  ----------------------------------------
  -- But this would instead be in a table  tag_rels_t,
  -- Like post_rels_t and pat_rels_t?
  val_pat_id_c     i32,    -- e.g.  Assigned to: {some-user}  on a page

  val_page_id_c    i32,    -- this tag or user badge, links to a page
                           -- e.g. a "Maybe Promote" tag, placed on a user,
                           -- visible only to core members,
                           -- which links to a page with a discussion about
                           -- what this user is doing well / why-very-helpful,
                           -- explaining why s/he should be made a Trusted member.
  val_cat_id_c     i32,
  ----------------------------------------


  -- Maybe not: -----------
  -- Maybe simple_vals_c (see above) instead?

  -- Link from a tag, to another tag, which could be on a different page? But why?
  -- val_tag_id_c     i32,

  -- val_type_id_c     i32,  -- link to a type? Mabye not.

  --  val_i64_c         i64,
  --  val_i64_len_c     i64_gez,  -- if a range

  --  val_f64_c         f64,
  --  val_f64_len_c     f64_gez,

  --  -- val_f64_perc_c    f64,  -- for confidence intervals, percent?

  --  val_text varchar,
  --  val_text_end varchar,  -- if a text range, e.g. v0.2021.30 to v0.2021.40
  --  val_json  jsonb_ste100_000_d,

  --  val_link_url_c url_d,
  --  val_link_title_c title_d,
);
----




== How tags are shown

Only if needed / many people ask for this.

Can be nice to abbreviate long tag names or values. Therefore:
`show_tag_how_d`. For now, just don't-show = 0, or show full name and value = 16.
In the distant future:

----
create domain show_tag_how_d  i16
    bits 0, 1:   0 = don't show name, 1 = show very abbreviated,
                 2 = show bit abbreviated, 3 = show full (default)
    bits 2, 3:   same, for any tag value
    bits 4 - 6:  if many values, 0 = don't show,
                 1 = just show num values (click to expand),
                 2 = show 1 value, 3 = show 3, 4 = show 7,
                 5 = show 14, 6 = show 30, 7 = show all?
    bits 7 - x:  ?show votes on tag how?  0 = don't show votes
----

Initially, only full names and maybe abbreviated names.

Or maybe, instead of bitfield (but this won't work with very-abbreviated tag names)

----
create domain show_tag_how_d  i16_gez_d & <= 9:
    0: don't-show here,
    1: tag name abbr,
    2: tag name full,

    3: tag value abbr,
    4: tag value full,

    5: abbr-name: abbr value(s)
    6: abbr-name: value
    6: name: abbr value(s)
    7: full name, value
    8: full name, expanded value: <= 4 rows
    9: full name, expanded value: <= 12 rows
----

If many values, then, better placed after the post? rather than in the header.


=== Maybe much later

.

==== Vote on tags?

Inspired by Gerrit, maybe Do-It votes on tags?

-- create domain may_do_it_vote_d i16_d,
--     lower 8 bits is max negative vote (e.g. -2 to block),
--     upper 8 bits is max positive number (e.g. +1 looks-good-to-me)
or just:
    tags_t
        max_do_it_vote_c  i16_gez_d,
        max_do_not_vote_c i16_gez_d,

Commit message:

Thoughts about custom types: Kinds, types, sub types.

docs/design-docs/tags.dd.adoc, after:


----
pats_t
  -- defautl: Admins only. Later, migrate this to tagtype_perms_t:
  may_edit_post_tags_c  may_d
  may_edit_pat_tags_c  may_d  -- pat tags more sensitive? are personal
  may_create_tagtypes_c  may_d
  may_edit_tagtypes_tr_lv  may_d




-- wait:
needed_d?
  0 = optional (not neeed)
  1? -1? = cannot add more (disallowed),
  2 = required at creation
  3 = required,

No. Instead, a member who wants a new tag type, craets it henself — a personal, public tag.
Starts using it a bit, and then messages the mods and says "Can we add this tag? ... ".
Skip: suggestion_status_d
     null/0 = nothing suggested,
     1 = new suggestion, 2 = under review, 3 = accepted, pending creation,  4 = accepted, created,  -1 = rejected?


-- See  docs/tyworld.adoc: Custom_types.
--
table types_t (    -- currently named  tagtypes_t (rename it)
  -- Later, these as well?:

  owned_by_id_c int,    -- by default visible only to that user/group, null = global, everyone can see
                        -- to make visible for others, use  tagtype_perms_t
  deleted_by_id_c int,
  merged_into_tagtype_id_c int,
  merged_by_id_c int,

  ---- WAIT with this: ------------------------------
  icon_nr_c,              -- to use any Ty built-in icon?
  image_upl_path_c,


  ---- WAIT with this: ------------------------------
  -- if non-staff wants to create tags, which staff can later one-click approve, not having to do the work themselves:
  -- No, skip.
  suggestion_status_c    suggestion_status_d,
  suggested_by_id_c,

  enabled_c,

  -- No, skip. Better use an Idea topic instead?
  deleted_status_c,       -- 1 = deletion suggested, 2 = pending deletion?, 3 = deleted?, 4 = purged?   -1 = deletion suggestion rejected

  use_in_whole_site_c,   -- if not, use-were defined in: types_use_where_t

  can_be_seen_by_min_trust_level_c,   -- null —> none
  can_be_seen_by_group_id_c,          -- or  a tagtype_perms_t ?
  can_use_self_c,                     -- publ/priv bookmark

  -- post tagged
  show_in_page_list_if_on_reply_c   show_tag_how_d,
  show_in_page_list_if_on_op_c      show_tag_how_d,  >= show_in_page_list_if_on_reply_c
  show_on_reply_post_c              show_tag_how_d,  >= show_in_page_list_if_on_reply_c
  show_on_orig_post_c               show_tag_how_d,  >= show_in_page_list_if_on_op_c

  -- pat tagged
  show_in_pat_list_c      show_tag_how_d,
  show_on_post_author_c   show_tag_how_d,
  show_on_pat_card_c      show_tag_how_d,  >= show_on_post_author_c & show_in_pat_list_c
  show_on_profile_page_c  show_tag_how_d,  >= show_on_post_author_c & show_in_pat_list_c & show_on_pat_card_c
  needed_on_pats_c        needed_d,       -- and/or-insetad: types_use_where_t.needed_c
  ?? child_tag_needed
  ?? default_child_tag
  -----------------------------------------
);


create table tag_synonyms_t (
  site_id_c int,
  lang_code_c text_oneline_30_d default '',  ?
  synonym_c text_oneline_60_d,
  tagtype_id_c int,
  pk:  site_id_c, lang_code_c, synonym_c  ?
);




-- This'd be in  pat_rels_t instead? E.g.  Sarah —> PatRelType.SuggestDelete —> a-tag
--
create table tag_actions_t (  -- maybe never
  site_id_c
  tag_id_c
  action_type_c
     e.g.:  SuggestDeleteTag, SuggestEditValue, Do-It Vote -N/+N (like in Gerrit), DiscussTag
  action_value_int_c
  discussion_page_id_c
);




create table perms_on_types_t(    -- much later.
           -- Also see: appsv/rdb/src/main/resources/db/migration/db-wip.sql  [perms_thoughts]
  site_id_c,
  for_pat_id_c,
  on_global_tags_c bool,
  on_global_and_priv_tags_c bool,
  on_thing_type_c type_d,
  on_sub_type_c   type_d,  -- ?
  may_edit_type_name_slug_descr_looks_c,   ??
  may_edit_type_name_descr_c,              ??
  may_edit_type_other_c,
  may_edit_type_use_where_c,
  may_see_others_c,      -- false —> becomes personal bookmark / star?
  may_add_c,
  may_edit_others_c,
  may_add_own_inst_c,
  may_edit_own_inst_c,
  may_merge_c,
);


create table types_use_where_t(    -- much later
  site_id_c int,
  type_id_c int,
  -- Is this for content tags, or does say  use_in_cat_id_c  make sense
  -- also for VotedOn.* types or e.g. an AssignedTo.AnswerQuestion type?
  use_in_cat_id_c,
  use_in_group_id_c,
  use_on_oneself_c,
  child_of_type_id_c,
  allowed_w_o_parent_c,  -- if is child, then, may be added if parent tag hasn't been added?
  needed_c  needed_d,
  auto_create_c,
  auto_create_child_c,   -- then, auto created with def value (if any), if creating parent tag
);



create table tags_t(

  -- mayeb add later: ------------
  on_cat_id_c,
  on_tag_id_c,       -- tag a tag? Maybe later
  on_type_id_c,      -- e.g. tag a type with a "Merge this type with: (other type)"?

  cust_i32_c   i32_d,
  cust_json_c  jsonb_ste100_000_d,  -- simpler than  tag_vals_t?

  -- So anyone can suggest tags, but, say, a trusted member needs to review and
  -- approve — so tags end up getting wisely used: (tags are often a mess, in other
  -- software systems)
  suggestion_status_c suggestion_d,

  deleted_by_id_c, -- maybe only the deleter and those-with-the-required-permission can undelete?
  hidden_by_id_c,  -- e.g. if staff added tag, but pat hides it, doesn't like it, then hidden_by_id_c = pat's id
  ----------------------------
);
----


== Can tag what?

Later: Will change  tag_types_t  to just  types_t,  [custom_types]
so can be used as  link types too,  e.g.  custom vote types (aka "reactions").


Each tag type, what things can one tag with it?
There're pages, votes, flags, cats, tags, pats, plugins, nothing (plugin key-value store).
Use a bitfield?

No --------------------
Guests, (built-in users), users, bot users, groups,  = 2^5 - 1 = 31.
  — what about accounts controlled by both a bot and a human? Or if unknown.
Pages (orig posts), replies, meta posts, = 2^5 + 2^6 + 2^7 - 1 = 32+64+128 = 224
Think about later: categories, tags, votes, flags, edit suggestions, plugins, ... .
------ Intstead?: -----
  Guests = 2^0 + Users = 2^1 + Groups = 2^2       =  7  (instead of 31)
     but what about anons, pseudonyms and circles?
  Pages  = 2^3 + Replies = 2^4 + Meta posts = 2^5 = 56  (instead of 224)

What?:
  No:
      Links from pats  to: cats, tags, pages, comments, meta comments,
                          guests, anons, users, groups, circles
      Links from posts to: cats, tags, pages, comments, meta comments,
                          guests, anons, users, groups, circles
  Instead;
      post links of  link_type_d in ...
      post links of  link_sub_type_d in ....

      pat  links of  link_type_d in ...
      pat  links of  link_sub_type_d in ....

Therefore: domain thing_types_d, can be only 7 or 56, for now.


== Tag values

Maybe:  If a tag needs many values, let a single tag in  tags_t  consist of many rows,
each row with one value?  — Instead of a new table tag_vals_t?
NO, so complicated! Just add a  cust_jsonb_c  column and that's it — if a plugin
    needs to store an array of values, then, it can do so in that jsonb thing.

either:  (but too complicated!?)
    tags_t: remove pk
    tags_t +=
      has_extra_vals          bool
      extra_val_for_tag_id_c  tag_id_d,

or:      (but too complicated!?)
    tags_t: add val_nr: 0,1,2,... , 0 could be the main
    tags_t +=
      has_extra_vals          bool
      extra_val_for_tag_id_c  tag_id_d,
      val_type_c     val_type_d,   -- e.g. date —> val_i64_c = unix time millis?
                                    -- date_range —> val_i64_end_c  = end date range?
                                    -- CVE score: (0, 10]
                                    -- SemVer2 —> regex check?
                                    -- etc etc

and/or just inline all values, maybe:
(Foreign keys won't work, but the simplicity and the higher performance and the
lower bug risk (than if joining with a tag values table) is worth it I think!
See: http://www.databasesoup.com/2015/01/tag-all-things.html & part 2 & 3.
BUT there can be a  tag_rels_t  with links from tags to posts or pats, if that
   ever makes sense. With foreign keys.  Just like there's  post_rels_t and pat_rels_t.)

    -- Hmm this can handle almost everything?:
    val_type_c     i32,
    val_f64_c      f64,
    val_text_c     text,
    val_http_url_c http_url_d,
    val_jsonb_c    jsonb_ste100_000_d,
    ----------

    val_i64_c      i64_d,    -- name it  cust_i64_c ?
    -- Mabye skip all this (just an i64 and a jsonb can be enough?!) -----
    val_i64_end_c  i64_d,
    val_f64_c      f64_d,
    val_f64_end_c  f64_d,

    val_title_c    text w max len,
    val_http_url_c http_url_d,

    val_i32_arr_c   i32[],
    val_i64_arr_c   i64[],
    val_f64_arr_c   f64[],
    val_text_arr_c  text[],
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------


And tag_types_t:
  allowed_val_types_c  User   for example    — maybe a bitfield?
  max_num_vals_c      5   (0..=100 for example)   — e.g. assign sth to 5 ppl?


Mat views are reealy slow, often out of sync:
    https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29437650/how-can-i-ensure-that-a-materialized-view-is-always-up-to-date

Later:

In Talkyard, tags will be able to have values. E.g. an Assigned-To page tag,
with its value being the person (or people, or group) responsible for gettin it done.
*NO*, instead, the links tables, just 1 row:
        pat_rels_t:
            from_pat_id_c = ...
            to_post_id_c = ...
            rel_type_c = PatLinkType.AssignedTo
    That's simpler. But with tags, would need 2 rows (or 3 if counting the types_t row)
    that's pointless indirection (linking a post and a person via a tag, not directly),
    more complicated:
        types_t:  Assigned-To tag type,
        tags_t:   a tag of type Assigned-To, tagging the post
        tag_rels_t:
            from_tag_id_c =  the tag just above (in tags_t)
            to_pat_id_c =    the person assigned

And also, this makes it harder to write queries for looking up who's assigned to what
— need to join all of:  posts_t, tags_t, types_t, tag_rels_t, pats_t

                          ,——> types_t: AssignedTo
                         /
            [post] <—— tag ——————> [person]
                          `~—————> [person-2]  (2 ppl assigned)

     instead of just:   posts_t, pat_rels_t, pats_t

            [post] <——— AssignedTo ——— [person]
                 ^————— AssignedTo ——— [person-2]

So don't use tags for AssignedTo etc.  Instead, pat_rels_t and the AssignedTo type.

-- Don't: ----------
Or a Do-After tag, saying that something should/needs-to wait until
after another feature/problem has been done/fixed.
-- Instead: --------
A  post_post_rels_t  relationship of type  PostPostRelType.DoAfter?
Just one row:
            [idea post] ——> Depends-On ———> [other idea post]
instead of with tags:  3 rows?
            the tag itself
            tag ——> do first post
            tag ——> do later post
But the  types_t  table is still needed, where not built-in types like  Depends-On  can be stored?
--------------------

--- NO, this'll probably be a post of type sth like AboutNotes, and a post_rels_t entry
      linking the post to the person?  No need to bring tags into this. Links are simpler,
      more direct.
Or a "Staff Notes" tag (user badge) on a person, visible only to staff,
which links to a staff-only page with notes and comments about that person.
-------


--- NO, this will be links instead, e.g. PatLinkType.AssignedTo:
Probably there'd be some default tag types, in the same way as there are
default categories (ideas, questions etc).
They could be: Assigned-To and Staff-Notes?
-------

There could be numeric or text values, e.g. `version: `1.23.01-beta-1`,
or `price: 234` (but what currency?).  Or `location-lat: 123` `..-long: 456`?
Or `Happens-In-City: (some city)`, or `Happens-At: (date-time)`

This could also be achieved via a consistent tag naming scheme,
like people do in GitHub, e.g.: `version-1.23.01-beta-1`
or `happens-in-London` and `happens-in-Barcelona`,
but then it's cumbersome or even infeasible to change `happens-in-` to, say,
`Happens in: ` or `Where: ` or `location-`
— instead of just renaming one tag (the "Happens in city" tag),
you'd have to rename _all_ tags with that prefix.

What values would be nice to support?

CVE numbers: float (0.0, 10.0].
Software versions: string?
Pat list.
Page list.
Date-time.
Date-time range.
Many date-time ranges? (a many evenings / days event)
Cat list?
Tag list? Hmm

----
create table tag_vals_t(
  site_id_c int,
  tag_id_c int,

  ----------------------------------------
  -- But this would instead be in a table  tag_rels_t,
  -- Like post_rels_t and pat_rels_t?
  val_pat_id_c     i32,    -- e.g.  Assigned to: {some-user}  on a page

  val_page_id_c    i32,    -- this tag or user badge, links to a page
                           -- e.g. a "Maybe Promote" tag, placed on a user,
                           -- visible only to core members,
                           -- which links to a page with a discussion about
                           -- what this user is doing well / why-very-helpful,
                           -- explaining why s/he should be made a Trusted member.
  val_cat_id_c     i32,
  ----------------------------------------


  -- Maybe not: -----------
  -- Maybe simple_vals_c (see above) instead?

  -- Link from a tag, to another tag, which could be on a different page? But why?
  -- val_tag_id_c     i32,

  -- val_type_id_c     i32,  -- link to a type? Mabye not.

  --  val_i64_c         i64,
  --  val_i64_len_c     i64_gez,  -- if a range

  --  val_f64_c         f64,
  --  val_f64_len_c     f64_gez,

  --  -- val_f64_perc_c    f64,  -- for confidence intervals, percent?

  --  val_text varchar,
  --  val_text_end varchar,  -- if a text range, e.g. v0.2021.30 to v0.2021.40
  --  val_json  jsonb_ste100_000_d,

  --  val_link_url_c url_d,
  --  val_link_title_c title_d,
);
----




== How tags are shown

Only if needed / many people ask for this.

Can be nice to abbreviate long tag names or values. Therefore:
`show_tag_how_d`. For now, just don't-show = 0, or show full name and value = 16.
In the distant future:

----
create domain show_tag_how_d  i16
    bits 0, 1:   0 = don't show name, 1 = show very abbreviated,
                 2 = show bit abbreviated, 3 = show full (default)
    bits 2, 3:   same, for any tag value
    bits 4 - 6:  if many values, 0 = don't show,
                 1 = just show num values (click to expand),
                 2 = show 1 value, 3 = show 3, 4 = show 7,
                 5 = show 14, 6 = show 30, 7 = show all?
    bits 7 - x:  ?show votes on tag how?  0 = don't show votes
----

Initially, only full names and maybe abbreviated names.

Or maybe, instead of bitfield (but this won't work with very-abbreviated tag names)

----
create domain show_tag_how_d  i16_gez_d & <= 9:
    0: don't-show here,
    1: tag name abbr,
    2: tag name full,

    3: tag value abbr,
    4: tag value full,

    5: abbr-name: abbr value(s)
    6: abbr-name: value
    6: name: abbr value(s)
    7: full name, value
    8: full name, expanded value: <= 4 rows
    9: full name, expanded value: <= 12 rows
----

If many values, then, better placed after the post? rather than in the header.


=== Maybe much later

.

==== Vote on tags?

Inspired by Gerrit, maybe Do-It votes on tags?

-- create domain may_do_it_vote_d i16_d,
--     lower 8 bits is max negative vote (e.g. -2 to block),
--     upper 8 bits is max positive number (e.g. +1 looks-good-to-me)
or just:
    tags_t
        max_do_it_vote_c  i16_gez_d,
        max_do_not_vote_c i16_gez_d,
