docs/e2e-tests-readme.md, before:

End-to-End tests Readme
===================

Webdriver.io is used.

To run the e2e tests, you currently need Java 8 and Node.js, not just Docker-Compose:

    java -version  # the Java version should be >= 1.8, I have never tested Java 1.9
    node -v   # v5.0.0 works for me, and more recent versions too I would think
    npm -v    #  3.3.6 works for me, and more recent versions too I would think

Run tests like so:

1. In one shell, start the server and database and everything:

        docker-compose start

1. In another shell, start Selenium:

        node_modules/selenium-standalone/bin/selenium-standalone install # do once only
        node_modules/selenium-standalone/bin/selenium-standalone start

1. In yet another shell, run the test code:

        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.conf.js --skip3rdPartyDependentTests
        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.conf.js --skip3  # shorthand for the line above

        # Or if you have configured Google and Facebook etc OpenAuth test accounts:
        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.conf.js --secretsPath ../conf/e2e-secrets.json

    You can run only files that match a certain pattern. The following runs
    all test files matching `*link*`, namely `client/test/e2e/specs/all-links.tests.ts`:

        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.conf.js --skip3 --only 'links'

    If you get this error: "Cannot find module '.../target/e2e/wdio.conf.js'", then
    fix that by building the end-to-end test code:

        gulp build-e2e

1. But some tests, e.g. `chat.2browsers.test.ts`, require two browsers. Then use the 2whatever config files, e.g.:

        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.2chrome.conf.js --skip3 --only 'chat.2browsers' --da
        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.3chrome.conf.js --skip3 --only 'categories.3browsers' --da


### Browsers other than Chrome

If you want to use a browser other than Chrome, then see [Making *.localhost addresses work](./wildcard-dot-localhost.md).
(In Chrome, though, ``*.localhost` addresses seem to work fine by default.)


### Typescript

The tests are written in Typescript. When you run `docker-compose start` (see above), a Docker container
that runs `gulp watch` (which transpiles Typescript to Javascript) starts. If you want to
transpile typescript manually, instead of via the container, then open yet another shell and:

        docker-compose stop gulp
        gulp watch  # when it says "Finished 'build-e2e'", the e2e code has been transpiled


### Debugging

To debug in node.js:

    npm install -g node-inspector  # do once only

    # This'll tell you to open a http://127.0.0.1:8080/... in a browser — that's the debugger GUI.
    node-inspector --debug-port 5859 --no-preload

    # Run the tests, but add --debug = -d, e.g.:
    scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.3chrome.conf.js -d --skip3 --only 'categories.3browsers'


### Decisions

Webdriver.io is used because:
  1. It supports Multiremote, i.e. running many browsers at the same time in the same test, useful to test e.g. the chat system.
  2. It has synchronous commands: console.log(browser.getTitle()) instead of browser.getTitle().then(title => console.log(...)).
  3. it is under active development.

Commit message:

Headless e2e tests. Chrome & FF. Wait for Nashorn.

docs/e2e-tests-readme.md, after:

End-to-End tests Readme
===================

Webdriver.io is used.

To run the e2e tests, you currently need Java 8 and Node.js, not just Docker-Compose:

    java -version  # the Java version should be >= 1.8, I have never tested Java 1.9
    node -v   # v5.0.0 works for me, and more recent versions too I would think
    npm -v    #  3.3.6 works for me, and more recent versions too I would think

Run tests like so:

1. In one shell, start the server and database and everything:

        docker-compose start

1. In another shell, start Selenium:

        node_modules/selenium-standalone/bin/selenium-standalone install # do once only
        node_modules/selenium-standalone/bin/selenium-standalone start

1. In yet another shell, run the test code:

        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.conf.js --skip3rdPartyDependentTests
        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.conf.js --skip3  # shorthand for the line above

        # Or if you have configured Google and Facebook etc OpenAuth test accounts:
        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.conf.js --secretsPath ../conf/e2e-secrets.json

    You can run only files that match a certain pattern. The following runs
    all test files matching `*link*`, namely `client/test/e2e/specs/all-links.tests.ts`:

        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.conf.js --skip3 --only 'links'

    If you get this error: "Cannot find module '.../target/e2e/wdio.conf.js'", then
    fix that by building the end-to-end test code:

        gulp build-e2e

1. But some tests, e.g. `chat.2browsers.test.ts`, require two browsers. Then use the 2whatever config files, e.g.:

        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.2chrome.conf.js --skip3 --only 'chat.2browsers' --da
        scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.3chrome.conf.js --skip3 --only 'categories.3browsers' --da


### Browsers other than Chrome

If you want to use a browser other than Chrome, then see [Making *.localhost addresses work](./wildcard-dot-localhost.md).
(In Chrome, though, ``*.localhost` addresses seem to work fine by default.)


### Invisible (headless) tests

If you don't want browser windows to pop up when running the automatic tests, you can run
the tests in invisible windows instead. So that you won't get distracted.

On Linux, do this: (other platforms? no idea)

    # Install X Virtual Frame Buffer. It can create invisible windows.
    sudo apt-get install xvfb  # do once only.

    # Start Selenium, via Xvbf, so the browsers Selenium will spawn, will be invisible.
    # (Also, specify a not-super-small screen size, otherwise tests will fail.)
    xvfb-run -s '-screen 0 1280x1024x8' node_modules/selenium-standalone/bin/selenium-standalone start

    # Run some tests, e.g.:
    scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.conf.js --skip3 --only create-site


### Typescript

The tests are written in Typescript. When you run `docker-compose start` (see above), a Docker container
that runs `gulp watch` (which transpiles Typescript to Javascript) starts. If you want to
transpile typescript manually, instead of via the container, then open yet another shell and:

        docker-compose stop gulp
        gulp watch  # when it says "Finished 'build-e2e'", the e2e code has been transpiled


### Debugging

To debug in node.js:

    npm install -g node-inspector  # do once only

    # This'll tell you to open a http://127.0.0.1:8080/... in a browser — that's the debugger GUI.
    node-inspector --debug-port 5859 --no-preload

    # Run the tests, but add --debug = -d, e.g.:
    scripts/wdio target/e2e/wdio.3chrome.conf.js -d --skip3 --only 'categories.3browsers'


### Decisions

Webdriver.io is used because:
  1. It supports Multiremote, i.e. running many browsers at the same time in the same test, useful to test e.g. the chat system.
  2. It has synchronous commands: console.log(browser.getTitle()) instead of browser.getTitle().then(title => console.log(...)).
  3. it is under active development.
